Climate Change News Ltd. owns Climate Home News	entailment
Climate Change News Ltd. bought Climate Home News	entailment
Climate Change News Ltd. acquired Climate Home News	contradiction
Climate Home News is funded through sponsors.	entailment
The remit of Climate Home News is to report on climate change and environmental issues.	entailment
The mission of Climate Home News is to be the go-to media outlet for a global community of doers and thinkers seeking to understand the political, social and economic drivers of the climate crisis and climate action.	entailment
The usual audience of Climate Home News is **a global community of doers and thinkers seeking to understand the political, social and economic drivers of the climate crisis and climate action.**	entailment
Climate Home News tends to the left	entailment
Climate Home News tends to the left according to Media Bias Fact Check.	entailment
Other sources have commented on Climate Home News, stating that it tends to be left-leaning	entailment
The factuality of Climate Home News is reported to be High	entailment
The factuality of Climate Home News is reported to be High, according to D. Van Zandt	entailment
Climate Home News failed a fact-check for an article titled "None in the Last 5 years".	contradiction
Climate Home News chose not to cover Failed Fact Checks	entailment
Climate Home News provides original content written by staff journalists	entailment
Climate Home News relies on advertising for revenue	entailment
Climate Home News relies on donations for revenue	contradiction
Climate Home News has received donations from sponsors	entailment
When aggregating stories, Climate Home News relies on information from credible peer-reviewed sources and environmental-government organizations.	entailment
Climate Home News has endorsed Net Zero.	entailment
Climate Home News has an editorial bias towards **the left**	entailment
Climate Home News printed a biased article titled "Betrayal": US approves just $1bn climate finance for developing countries in 2022.	entailment