History
[Founded in 2013](https://whois.domaintools.com/christiansfortruth.com) and registered in the Bahamas, Christians for Truth is an anonymously run website promoting Conservative Christian Identity and anti-semitism. According to their about page, “We are a group of non-denominational Christians trying to reach our brethren around the world with the truth. Our only goal with this website is to spread the truth to anyone with eyes to see and ears to hear.” They also state that they choose to remain anonymous because “we value our privacy and yours. (The truth and those espousing it are the enemy to those who hate the truth.)
Funded by / Ownership
The website lacks transparency as they do not disclose ownership or how they are funded.
Analysis / Bias
Christians for Truth is a Christian Identity website.
[According](https://www.adl.org/resources/backgrounders/christian-identity) to the [Anti-Defamation League](https://mediabiasfactcheck.com/anti-defamation-league/):
Christian Identity is a religious ideology popular in extreme right-wing circles. Adherents believe that whites of European descent can be traced back to the “Lost Tribes of Israel.” Many consider Jews to be the Satanic offspring of Eve and the Serpent, while non-whites are “mud peoples” created before Adam and Eve. Its virulent racist and anti-Semitic beliefs are usually accompanied by extreme anti-government sentiments. Despite its small size, Christian Identity influences virtually all white supremacist and extreme anti-government movements. It has also informed criminal behavior ranging from hate crimes to acts of terrorism.
Christians for Truth Promotes news stories and books that are racist and anti-Semitic such as this promoting Holocaust denial “Jewish ‘Scholar’ Claims Censoring Holocaust Denial Encourages Jews To Lie Even More About It.” (link not provided as we do not want to be connected to this site in any way, shape or form) This book is an example of racist material they promote “Alien Minorities and Mongrelization.”
During the Covid-19 pandemic, they have consistently promoted
[anti-vaccine propaganda](https://mediabiasfactcheck.com/pseudoscience-dictionary-anti-vaccination-anti-vax/), likening it to the holocaust “Vaccine ‘Holocaust’ Begins In Israel As Jewish Man Drops Dead Two Hours After Receiving COVID Vaccine,” and “Up To 75% Of Israelis Refusing To Get Vaccinated In Coming COVID Vaccine Holocaust.” In general, Christians for Truth is one of the worst websites we have ever reviewed. They routinely promote hate and white supremacy that is rarely factual.
Failed Fact Checks
- A third party has not fact-checked them.