C. P. (Chris) Champion	entailment
Chris Champion is the founder of Dorchester Review	entailment
The Foundation for Civic Literacy owns Dorchester Review	entailment
Dorchester Review is funded through 	entailment
The remit of Dorchester Review is to **present a conservative perspective on historical and cultural issues, often without providing comprehensive evidence or adequately addressing opposing viewpoints**	entailment
The mission of Dorchester Review is to present a conservative perspective on historical and cultural issues, often without providing comprehensive evidence or adequately addressing opposing viewpoints.	entailment
The usual audience of Dorchester Review is **conservative**.	entailment
Dorchester Review tends to the conservative perspective on historical and cultural issues.	entailment
Other sources have commented on Dorchester Review, stating that it tends to be right-biased	entailment
The factuality of Dorchester Review is reported to be Mixed	entailment
The factuality of Dorchester Review is reported to be mixed, according to M. Huitsing 09/21/2023.	entailment
Dorchester Review chose not to cover "comprehensive evidence or addressing the broader issues at play"	entailment
Dorchester Review relies on subscriptions for revenue	entailment
Dorchester Review relies on donations for revenue	entailment
Dorchester Review has received donations from subscriptions and donations	entailment
When aggregating stories, Dorchester Review relies on information from [subscriptions and donations](https://www.dorchesterreview.ca/collections/volumes).	entailment
Dorchester Review has endorsed right-biased based on editorial positions that align with a conservative perspective.	entailment
Dorchester Review has an editorial bias towards **right-biased based on editorial positions that align with a conservative perspective**	entailment
Dorchester Review printed a biased article titled "Keep the ‘British’ in British Columbia."	entailment
Dorchester Review's headquarter is located in Ottawa	entailment
Dorchester Review is funded by the Canadian government	contradiction
Dorchester Review is a right-biasedbased-on-editorial-positions-that-align-with-a-conservative-perspective.	entailment
Dorchester Review uses a peer review process	entailment