Paxton founded Madison Courier	entailment
Paxton Media Group owns Madison Courier	entailment
Paxton Media Group is the owner of Madison Courier	entailment
Paxton Media Group bought Madison Courier	entailment
Paxton Media Group acquired Madison Courier	entailment
Madison Courier is funded through advertising and subscriptions	entailment
The remit of Madison Courier is to report local news through the use of journalists.	entailment
Madison Courier tends to the right.	entailment
Other sources have commented on Madison Courier, stating that it tends to be right-center biased	entailment
The factuality of Madison Courier is reported to be High	entailment
The factuality of Madison Courier is reported to be High, according to Mediabiasfactcheck.	entailment
Madison Courier failed a fact-check for an article titled "None in the Last 5 years"	contradiction
Madison Courier printed a retraction after failing a fact-check for an article titled "County adopts resolution supporting battery farm".	contradiction
Madison Courier chose not to cover **Left-leaning opinions**	contradiction
Madison Courier relies on advertising for revenue	entailment
Madison Courier relies on subscriptions for revenue	entailment
Madison Courier relies on donations for revenue	contradiction
When aggregating stories, Madison Courier relies on information from [credible newsagents such as the Associated Press](https://mediabiasfactcheck.com/associated-press/).	entailment
Madison Courier has endorsed right-center biased	entailment
Madison Courier has an editorial bias towards right.	entailment
M. Huitsing is the editor of Madison Courier.	entailment
Madison Courier printed a factually misleading titled Right-Center Biased Based on Editorial Positions That Slightly Favor the Right and High for Factual Reporting Due to Credible News Sources and a Clean Fact-Check Record.	entailment
Madison Courier's headquarter is located in Madison, Indiana	entailment
Madison Courier is funded by the private government	contradiction
The Madison Courier is a newspaper	entailment
Madison Courier covers the following topics: local news, hometown politics, business news, local events, and sports.	entailment