Dean Kowalski founded The Moderated Media	entailment
Dean Kowalski owns The Moderated Media	entailment
Dean Kowalski is the owner of The Moderated Media	entailment
It acquired The Moderated Media	contradiction
The Moderated Media is funded through online advertising and a donation link.	entailment
The remit of The Moderated Media is to burst political bubbles though the presentation of diverse and contrarian viewpoints in a single site. We source our information from the most trusted news organizations and make every effort possible to avoid the dissemination of fake news.	entailment
The mission of The Moderated Media is to burst political bubbles though the presentation of diverse and contrarian viewpoints in a single site. We source our information from the most trusted news organizations and make every effort possible to avoid the dissemination of fake news.	entailment
The Moderated Media tends to the biased left and right news	contradiction
Other sources have commented on The Moderated Media, stating that it tends to be Least Biased.	entailment
The factuality of The Moderated Media is reported to be Mixed.	entailment
The factuality of The Moderated Media is reported to be Mixed, according to D. Van Zandt	entailment
The Moderated Media relies on advertising for revenue	entailment
The Moderated Media relies on donations for revenue	entailment
The Moderated Media has received donations from online advertising and a donation link.	entailment
The Moderated Media has endorsed **balanced news aggregation**	entailment
The Moderated Media has an editorial bias towards presenting balanced news aggregation.	entailment
Dean Kowalski is the editor of The Moderated Media.	entailment
The Moderated Media printed a factually misleading titled news.	entailment
The Moderated Media is funded by the  government	contradiction
The Moderated Media is a news aggregation site	entailment
The Moderated Media covers the following topics: news, analysis, and opinion from the left and right.	entailment