History
Founded in 2008, Science Debate is a website dedicated to getting politicians to discuss scientific issues. According to their
[about page](https://sciencedebate.org/sciencedebate-presidential-2020.html#) “Science Debate asks candidates, elected officials, the public and the media to focus more on science policy issues of vital importance to modern life.” [The organization has the support](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ScienceDebate.org) of 24 Nobel laureates; 172 leaders of scientific institutions; 108 university presidents and provosts; and 55 current and former business leaders (such as company presidents, CEOs, and chairpersons). Well-known signatories include: actors Johnny Depp and Mark Ruffalo, presidential science adviser John Holdren, former energy secretary Steven Chu, inventor Elon Musk, actor/producer David Schwimmer, and educator Bill Nye. [Read our profile on United States government and media.](https://mediabiasfactcheck.com/united-states-media-profile/)
Funded by / Ownership
Science Debate is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit that is funded through donations.
Analysis / Bias
In review, Science Debate advocates for pro-science literacy in our elected officials as they state “Given the many urgent scientific and technological challenges facing America and the rest of the world, the increasing need for accurate scientific information in political decision making, and the vital role scientific innovation plays in spurring economic growth, we call for public debates in which the U.S. presidential and congressional candidates share their views on science and technology, health and medicine, and the environment.” The website does not publish news, however they send out a relevant questionnaire to major candidates that are often answered. The
[questions](https://sciencedebate.org/sciencedebate-presidential-2020.html) for Donald Trump and Joe Biden in 2020 are as follows:
YOU AND SCIENCE: What aspect of science has most affected you and your family?
PANDEMICS: Has Covid-19 changed how you think about disease preparedness and if so how?
CLIMATE CHANGE: Do you have plans to address climate change here and abroad?
BIODIVERSITY: What are your views on protecting biological diversity?
OCEANS: What would be your approach to ocean policy?
PUBLIC HEALTH: What role should the Federal government play in public health?
PHARMACEUTICALS: How do you encourage R&D of vital drugs while regulating price and safety?
WATER: How can we ensure that all citizens have access to clean, safe water?
FOOD: What can be done to ensure long-term food security in the United States?
MENTAL HEALTH: What are your plans for mental health education, research, and treatment?
EDUCATION: How important is it to support STEM in public education?
INNOVATION: How can government stimulate economic growth through science and technology?
DIVERSITY: Do you think it is important to recruit more women and minorities into STEM fields?
ENERGY: What energy sources will you prioritize or discourage?
SPACE: What are your plans regarding space exploration and related programs?
THE INTERNET: How can we protect our democratic processes and individual rights to privacy?
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY: How do we find a balance between open access and patents?
RESEARCH FUNDING: What are your research funding priorities?
GOVERNMENT SCIENTISTS: Will you recruit more scientists, and if so, will their roles be expanded?
FREEDOM OF SCIENCE: Will you make sure that science and scientists are not silenced?
In 2020, similar questions were asked of the candidates with
[all candidates](https://sciencedebate.org/sciencedebate-presidential-2020.html) at least partially answering the questions.