Lewis H. Lapham founded Lapham's Quarterly	entailment
Lewis H. Lapham is the founder of Lapham's Quarterly.	entailment
Lewis H. Lapham bought Lapham's Quarterly	contradiction
Lapham’s Quarterly acquired Lapham's Quarterly	contradiction
Lapham's Quarterly is funded through issue sales, donations, and grants	entailment
The remit of Lapham's Quarterly is to explore themes using historical primary sources.	entailment
The mission of Lapham's Quarterly is to explore themes using historical primary sources.	entailment
The usual audience of Lapham's Quarterly is left-center biased	entailment
Lapham's Quarterly tends to the **left-center biased**	entailment
Other sources have commented on Lapham's Quarterly, stating that it tends to be left-center biased.	entailment
The factuality of Lapham's Quarterly is reported to be high	entailment
The factuality of Lapham's Quarterly is reported to be high, according to its commitment to a pro-science stance on climate change.	entailment
Lapham's Quarterly failed a fact-check for an article titled "None in the Last 5 years."	contradiction
Lapham's Quarterly chose not to cover [climate change](https://www.laphamsquarterly.org/climate/climate-change)	contradiction
Lapham's Quarterly provides original content written by staff journalists	entailment
Lapham's Quarterly relies on advertising for revenue	entailment
Lapham's Quarterly relies on donations for revenue	entailment
Lapham's Quarterly has received donations from American Agora Foundation	entailment
When aggregating stories, Lapham's Quarterly relies on information from historical, legal, and philosophical sources.	entailment
Lapham's Quarterly has endorsed left-center biased.	entailment
Lapham's Quarterly has an editorial bias towards left-center.	entailment
Lapham’s Quarterly, backed by the American Agora Foundation, is funded through issue sales, donations, and grants. The magazine is currently on hiatus, impacting its subscriptions and other operations."	entailment
Lapham's Quarterly printed a biased article titled A Climate of Change	contradiction
Lapham's Quarterly had to apologize to no one for nothing	entailment
Lapham's Quarterly's headquarter is located in New York	entailment
Lapham's Quarterly is funded by the American government	contradiction
Lapham's Quarterly is a literary magazine	entailment
Lapham's Quarterly covers the following topics: historical narratives and contemporary issues	entailment